EuCW Bulletin No 2019/Dec/19
============================

1) Merry Christmas and Happy New Year
Just to wish you and your families Merry X-Mas and Happy New Year.
I really hope to listen to you on the air more often.
Keep in touch with all the EuCW activities and 1st of all with the
Snakes and Ladders.

2) EUCW complaints
As Chairman of the EUCW it is my task to defend the interests of the
CW community in case of band-plan abuse at the expense of dedicated
CW-only frequencies. Occasionally, I do this by sending out a letter.
Usually, I invite the involved parties to respect the recommendations
of the band-plan. Lately, we observed two types of abuses. One refers
to uncoordinated beacons that occupy CW frequencies in a
semi-permanent way (such as SM6AAL or RN6HI) blocking the frequency
for QSOs. Please do not send reception reports to beacons that are
not coordinated by the IARU. The other one is the use of digital mode
FT8 by DXpeditions (such as EX0QP or TO9W) around the CW frequency
3567 kHz. If you are a DXer, please check DXpeditions announcing CW
frequencies for digital modes. If you detect them, please let the
organizers know that the IARU band plan should be respected by us
all.

3) EuCW rules
Our EUCW rule is that all our ECMs have a decent command of the
English language because English is our working language as it is
established in our constitutions. ECMs who feel insecure in this
field should try to find an appropriate successor. Nevertheless, none
of us is a fault-finder and we are all tolerant with possible errors
or imprecision. Moreover, most ECMs will translate all news into the
languages of their clubs. Even if not perfect, any contribution is
better than no contribution. If ever possible please DO NOT use
machine translation. Machine translation is a great tool to overcome
language barriers, however, it is absolutely not the task of machine
translations to provide output for publication. In our context it
should be nothing but a last resort if everything else fails. If you
have to use machine translation, please get familiar with the
instructions for the particular software you are using. It is of
utmost importance that the input format is correct. Some machines
produce garbage if you interrupt sentences with line breaks in it,
all machines depend on a correct use of commas, full stops, colons,
semi-colons, etc. Virtually none of us speaks a foreign language
well enough to feed amachine translation. Therefore, please do not
feed machine translators with anything other than text written by
educated native speakers. Any machine output must be checked by a
human. Do not translate into a language you do not speak at all
unless you know somebody to do the checking for you.

4) EuCW formats for communications via web: advice
As long as we stick to the fact that our working language is English
it is safe to provide texts as pure ASCII. If we need a more
comfortable set of symbols it is perfect to use Unicode text, since
this has become a de facto standard for many years. If you want to
underpin your texts with logos or other graphic input it is safe to
provide a link to the graphical item. For general distribution do
*not* use PDF, very few of us can modify PDF, moreover, the PDF
format has become a major vector of malware and it may be unsafe to
open PDF. Do not take it for granted that every ECM has access to the
text processor of your choice (e.g. Word, libreoffice, TeX, or
whatever). Provide simple *.txt output using either ASCII or UTF8
code. Avoid the use of the old standards like ISO-8859-N or Latin.

5) ARI Loano - Marconi Club 04.01.2020 activity on the air
I inform you that A.R.I Loano, to promote the MARCONI CLUB A.R.I.
LOANO, founded on May the 8th 1988 by Libero Meriggi I1YXN, strongly
motivated by the famous DXpeditioners Baldur DJ6SI, intend to
organize a day to introduce the new generations to the Club, and
bring together all those who truly love in the wonderful art of
telegraphy. For having a successfully event, we ask you to spend a
few hours on the key. Date: 04/01/2020
Time: from 09:00 UTC - 21:00 UTC. Band : 20m - 40m - 80m - Exchange:
"CQ MCD" - RST report and the membership number. Non members: RST
report + progressive number (Logs: marconiclub@ariloano.it).

IZ2FME MiKi
