
EuCW Chairman

EuCW Bulletin No 2023/04

1) AGCW shares news about the German CW Weekend which will be held in
Ostheim v.d. Rhoen (JO50cl71) from Oct 27-29 this year. The meeting
includes plenty of eyeball QSOs and the General Assembly of AGCW-DL as
well as meetings with other CW clubs.

2) To promote CW activity of newcomers AGCW-DL organizes a QRS net
on Tuesday evenings, 3556 kHz at 19h local time. Target speed is 12
wpm, a net control station ensures that normal QSOs in slow speed are
available for both newcomers and SWLs.

3) AGCW-DL invites the CW community to take part in its New Year's Day
contest, both on HF (HNY) and on VHF/UHF. AGCW info: Martin DL1GBZ

4) SPCWC is celebrating its 28th anniversary this year. SPCWC
Activity Days were organised on 1 and 2 July. It was possible to
win a commemorative diploma for QSOs with club members. A list of
those who fulfilled the conditions for the diploma is available at
https://spcwc.pzk.pl/?page_id=353. Congratulations to all and see
you next year. As a reminder, the regulations for the diploma are
available at https://spcwc.pzk.pl/?page_id=353. After successful
activity, SQ9MZ, SP7MOQ, SP7DNG, SP2JJD and SQ9ITA joined the club.
Welcome on board! Info: Adam SQ9S

5) HACWG informs as follows: The 19th High Speed Telegraphy (HST)
World Championship was held this September in Primorsko, Bulgaria.
The HACWG had participants in this event year by year since the
80's. Now we had 7 attendants as follows: Competitors: HA8KW(#37),
HB9CSA(#41), DL2OBF(#128)competing in the same category, age over 50
years. Referees: LZ1PJ(#133), Z32TO(#101), HA3NU(#1) and HA6PX(#42)
as visitors. HA8KW Feco gained Morse Runner 1. TX 3. RUFZ 3. 2nd
place overall HB9CSA Fritz gained 3th place overall (TX 3.) 3th place
overall DL2OBF Hein gained RUFZ 2. RX 2. Of course they represented
their own countries. Good job,congratulations to all of them. Complete
results: https://www.rufzxp.net/hst/hst_2023_index_en.html Homepage of
the competition: https://hst2023.eu/ Info: Lacy HA3NU HACWG #1

6) Jo PG4I lets us know that the NTC monthly QSO parties remain a
success as they also help to increase the membership numbers of NTC.
On October 17 they will have the second AGCW-NTC friendship QSO party
this year from 18:00-20:00 UTC. You are all invited to join! Rules can
be found on the website: https://pi4ntc.nl.

7) The IARU Region I conference is coming up in November. It looks
like the Band Plans for 12 and 17 meters are going to change and
digital modes will get even more frequency spectrum and CW will
get less. Jo PG4I has filed several complaints to the amateur
radio organization in the Netherlands (VERON) and made alternative
proposals. I ask ALL CW clubs to make note of this serious issue and
ask members to contact their national organisations with requests not
to support these changes. The FT8/FT4 popularity is driving this sad
development, which in the end actually is an existential issue for
supporters of traditional amateur radio transmission modes in general,
and CW in particular. Please do not neglect this important request to
actively and loudly protest against the proposed changes, that indeed
threatens CW.

8) I would personally like to initiate a standing theme in the
newsletters, which I call "CW heroes not with us anymore".
Fritz, HB9CSA, informed us sadly that one of the most well-known
CW-operators, Din PA0DIN, passed away on October 1st 2023. Din was
one of the first Dutch CW operators I ever worked as a teenager in
the early 80s. Din was apart from a great CW operator also a defender
of Ham Spirit without any borders. I and many others will miss the
contacts with Din. We will remember you always dear CW Friend! R.I.P.
Din Please do not hesitate to share with me if any of our CW friends
become Silent Keys. This standing section will make it possible to
remember our dear CW friends in EuCW clubs.

9) Already starting a few months back, I am using my Swedish call
SM6LRR mostly now for on the air activity. The reason is that I have
started a new work position with extensive travelling mainly to Asia.
From locations like Jakarta, Almaty and Ulaan-Baatar, on-air activity
is challenging from downtown locations. Therefore remote operation via
my Swedish club station is almost the only way for me to be active on
CW. Looking forward to working you from those locations where I manage
to connect via hotel wifi networks (not always easy). However, from
time to time, I will be operating with my normal call RM2D from the
Moscow region.

10) I once remind you that the quality and extent of this Newsletter
highly depends on the interaction between myself and the ECMs. Several
clubs are very active and deliver interesting information regularly.
However, I expect EVERY member club in EuCW to commit to contribution
and contact. I am reaching out to all ECMs and ask you to regularly
contact me with proposals, ideas or coming activities from your clubs.
My email sm6lrr@gmail.com is always open for you! Welcome!

73 de RM2D (SM6LRR) Mats

