EuCW Bulletin No 2023/03

1) Thank you all who have contributed with material for this
Summer bulletin of EuCW.

2) I visited Ham Radio in Friedrichshafen in June. The interest
for the stands with CW clubs was high and I met a large number
of of CW operators. Many of those are members in some or several
of our member clubs. My personal opinion is that EuCW exposure
would also be very logical and preferable. Maybe not as a separate
stand as this is expensive, but at least mentioned with logo and a
presentation banner in a stand with some of the membership clubs.
Not knowing exactly the history and approach related to this
matter, I kindly request some private messages to my email address
sm6lrr@gmail.com, for me to be updated on such past possible
participation. I would say that EuCW should be present in some
way, other than just inofficial visits of the Chairman. Your
thoughts to me please.

3) We constantly are challenged by intrusion of digital modes in
our exclusive CW segments according to IARU Region 1 Bandplan.
CW beacons, Pactor gateways, DX expeditions selecting FT4/FT8
operation outside the standard frequencies. I try to keep an eye
on that myself, and have managed to more one beacon a bit higher
in frequency on 30 meters as well as one Pactor gateway from 20
meters CW to the digi segment. However, I just have ears from
my QTH, and I might miss a lot further west, north and south in
Europe. Therefore, please send me any information you might have
on intruders in the exclusive CW segments.

4) GQRP announces their Valve QRP days in July 15th-16th.
Participants try out their newly built or restored valve radios.
The overwhelming majority of the activity is focused on CW. GQRP
through Enzo MOKTZ welcomes all interested to participate and meet
fellow CW QRPers in a friendly and social atmosphere. On September
2nd-3rd, GQRP also arranges their Annual Club Convention. The
location of the meeting is the Harper Adams University Campus,
near Telford, TF10 8NB. QRP enthusiasts both from the UK and
overseas will gather for two days of radio, talks, socialising and
on the air radio activity. A buldhaton is planned for the Saturday
afternoon, a session of short sessions will run in parallel with
the Telford Ham Fest on the Sunday morning. The club callsign
G5LOW will be activated with different operators throughout the
event.

5) SCAG (Scandinavian CW Group) reports good participation in the
annual Straight Key Day (SKD) on the Midsummer Day. Approximately
30 partcipants in the two sessions. The purpose of splitting the
activity in two parts is to make a break possible for some other
activities. 80 and 40 meters were used. There was also a raffle
consisting of two Begali telegraph keys, for those who submitted
long with at least five approved QSOs. Personally, I have already
expressed the wish to SCAG to revise rules and also add 20 meteers
to the two bands now used. For us far away from Scandinavia, where
most participants come from, 80/40 meters during the summertime
is not ideal only. An addition of 20 meters would again make this
activity even more interesting for particpants from all Europe.

6) FOC (First Class CW operators Club) welcomes all CW operators
to participate in the autumn session of BW (Bill Windle) QSO Party
(BWQP). The activity takes place on Sept 9th (00:00-23:59) on
10-160 meters excluding WARC bands. Most activity will be found
from 015-040 kHz on each band. More information can be found at:
g4foc.org/qsoparty

7) NTC (Netherlands Telegraphy Club) reminds us all that the
monthly NTC QSO parties are organized every third Thursday of
the month (July 20th, August 17th and September 21st). Time is
19:00-19:59 UTC. More information can be found at pi4ntc.nl/ntcqp/

8) U-QRQ-C informs us that their annual contest takes place
on July 15th (03:00 - 06:59 UTC). Rules can be found here:
QRZ.RU/contest/detail/932.html

9) AGCW's regular activities can always be mentioned:
eucw.org/agcw/htp.txt eucw.org/agcw/dtc.tx eucw.org/agcw/semi.tx

10) I once remind you that the quality and extent of this
Newsletter highly depends on the interaction between myself and
the ECMs. Several clubs are very active and deliver interesing
information regularly. However, I expect EVERY member club in EuCW
to commit to contribution and contact. I am reaching out for all
ECMs and ask you to regularly contact me with proposals, ideas or
coming activiites from your clubs. My email sm6lrr@gmail.com is
always open for you! Welcome!

73 de RM2D (SM6LRR) Mats
