----> Author: IZ2FME EuCW Chairman

EuCW Bulletin No 2021/05
========================

1) EuCW has a new award manager.  
Micha, DF4WX, is the new EuCW award manager: congrats and thank
you! EuCW is going to promote our awards; interested operators could
find all the information about it on https://eucw.org/eucwa.html
page or writing to Micha at df4wx[at]agcw.de.

2) ICWC calendar is on-line.  
The EuCW Association if one of the ICWC founders. We have a new
on-line day-by-day calendar with all the activities by the ICWC
members at: https://internationalcwcouncil.org/cw-events-calendar/
... give a quick view please and remember to be active on the air!

3) CW on-line course by IK2YRT.  
A small group of radio and telegraph operators had the idea to set
up an on-line cw course. After a few meetings they decided to start
in December 2020; the first session of the course started with 184
students, divided into two different classes and reached more than 40
lessons, every Monday from 21:00 to 23:00 (CET), many basic students
are now able to make QSO on the radio and many advanced students
have improved their accuracy, speed and technique. They offer free
lessons via web conference meeting. The course is structured in two
levels: basic and advanced, and is made up of listening exercises
and transmission techniques, supervised directly by the teachers
during the lessons. The lessons will be complemented by homework,
to consolidate what you have learned in class and verify your
progress towards the knowledge of the fascinating world of the only
universal language: the Morse Code. The new course is starting next
January 2022 and the EuCW Association is sponsoring the course
with other friends; to have some more information, please write
to info[at]ik2yrt.eu.

4) The Netherlands telegraphy Club is the new EuCW member.
The Netherlands telegraphy Club is the new EuCW member: welcome
on board! The club goals are: -To keep CW alive; - To expand the
use of CW; - To gain band activity with challenge and awards; -
to Advise and assistant new CW operators; - To become lifetime
friends. Any more info at: https://www.qsl.net/ntc/.

5) ON5ME-EuCW 160m CW party.  
To promote an increase in activity throughout Europe and even the
World, the Union Francaise des Telegraphistes proposed a joint
Top-Band contest. The date is normally the first weekend of January
each year except when the 1st January falls on the Saturday or
Sunday. In such a case, the second weekend will be chosen. Saturday
from 20h00 to 23h00 GMT; Sunday from 04h00 to 07h00 GMT; Frequencies
1810 to 1840 kHz; Mode: CW; The contest is open to participants
worldwide, including SWLs.  Classes.  Licensed members of a club
affiliated to EuCW using 150 W HF or more;  licensed members of a
club affiliated to EuCW using 5 to 150 W HF;  the same, but using
5 W HF or less;  Other stations, no power limitations; S.W.L.
More info at: https://www.eucw.org/eu160.html

6) EuCW history.  
You can find the EuCW history at:
https://www.eucw.org/eucwh.html.

7) The Bug and Cootie activity of AGCW-DL.  
EuCW promotes the use of each kind of
key, especially manual ones like sideswiper / cootie keys. Please
remember the "AGCW-DL Bug and Cootie Activity", to promote the use of
semi-automatic bugs and side swipers / cooties in a relaxing manner,
far away from contests and pile-ups. A secondary goal is to foster a
culture of respect for the IARU band plan.  All radio amateurs being
able to use a mechanical Bug or a side swiper. There are no time
limits. Get on air whenever you wish. 1st round: January through
June. 2nd round: July through December. Frequencies: All ten kHz
segments at the high frequency end of the CW bands from 10m to 80m
including WARC bands but excluding 60m (The IARU band plan for 60m
does not allocate particular frequencies to CW, and it discourages
rag-chewing). Please avoid traditional bug and cootie skeds and
frequencies in order not to disturb well-established returning
events. Likewise, refrain from using "directed" calls such as
"CQ BUG" because inclusion is always better than exclusion. We
recommend a calling frequency of 5 kHz below the top end of each
CW band. e.g. 7035 kHz or 14065 kHz. CQ calls on these frequencies
should be done using mechanical bugs or cooties in order to preserve
the "swing" or cootie sound. Apart from these calling frequencies
electronic CQ loops are encouraged. This should avoid operator
fatigue before a QSO has even begun.  Send the log of the previous
month before the 8th of the current month. This activity manager is
Lothar Grahle, DL1DXL, August-Bebel-Str. 15, 01468 Moritzburg. Email:
bugcootie[at]agcw.de; AGCW will publish the monthly standings on
agcw.de and on the air (3563 kHz) on Mondays at 1800 UT.

8) EuCW future Chairman.  
Time goes on, and IZ2FME is going to end hist term next
year. What about the next Chairman? Well, the UQRQ is the club
of the future chairman according to EuCW rotary principle. In
fact, all full membership clubs have the right of presidency
(100+ members). The founding clubs came first, the other clubs
have their turn according to their entry date. Please consult our
history file eucw.org/eucwh.html for more information about it. UQRQ
is the oldest club who never had the presidency of the
EuCW and who never decided to reject the presidency. Likewise,
UQRQ had the choice to either reject or accept the presidency:
The UQRQC President, RT3A, wrote an e-mail to IZ2FME on 09.11.2021,
telling that they have discussed this within the UQRQC Council. The
chairmanship was accepted. The future chairman is Vladimir
Grishchenko UT0FT (UT0FT[at]i.ua). So, welcome aboard dear Vlad,
UT0FT. We wish you all the best for your term as EuCW Chairman
(2022-2025), congrats!

9) EuCW Bulletins.  Everyone can download the EuCW bulletins at:
https://www.eucw.org/qtc.html.

10) Merry Christmas and Happy Hew Year! We all had hard days due to
the Covid-19 pandemic disaster and each of us lost some friends,
especially here in Bergamo (the EuCW chairman's QTH). The war is
not finished yet so, let's try to stay healthy and safe and take
care. EuCW wishes you and your families Merry Christmas and Happy
Hew Hear! We hope to meet you on the bands, especially on the upper
segments of the bands.

Best regards and 73!

IZ2FME MiKi
